---
permalink: /
title: "Performance-based Generative Design Process for Net Zero Carbon Buildings"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Performance-based generative design process uses optimization algorithms to automatically search for better designs based on two main inputs from the users; the solution space and the objective functions. In building designs, the solution space is usually formulated as a parametric model. The selected optimization algorithm uses the parametric model to generate design variants by varying its parameters. The generated variants are evaluated by building simulations and the results are used in the objective functions to determine a variant’s performance. Based on the performance, the optimization algorithm then adjusts the parameters accordingly to generate better performing design variants. Hundreds to thousands of design variants can be generated in an execution. An execution can be completed in a few hours to a few days depending on the complexity of the design problem.
<br/><br/>
If the solution space is meaningfully formulated and the objective functions well-defined, performance-based generative design process can be effectively used to achieve net zero carbon building design. However, the process is currently under-utilized in design projects. The main reasons being difficulties in preparing the inputs and interpretation of the results. Not many designers are able to meaningfully encode their design concepts as solution spaces and define zero carbon related objective functions to evaluate the generated design variants, which leads to misinterpretation of the process and results. My research aims to address this issue and enable a seamless integration of performance-based generative design process into the various stages of a building design. To encourage adoption in design practices, especially in developing countries that will see rapid urbanization and developments, my research will use only open source technologies and the results will be made openly available.

## Models and Analyses 
Major cities around the world are launching open data portals, providing access to high-resolution built environment data. However, these data are often provided in formats that require intensive processing before they can be used in analysis, designers are hindered from fully capitalizing on these data. This proposal will investigate and identify the models useful for achieving zero carbon emissions, followed by the data requirements for executing these models and lastly, investigate the techniques for acquiring the data. In my previous studies, I have worked with building scientists and urban climatologists in modeling the built environment for solar simulation and carbon accounting analysis1. I have also worked with building scientists in streamlining the data analysis process for measuring the mean radiant temperature. Building upon these studies, this proposal will develop techniques to access and integrate the diverse sets of GIS, BIM and IoT data for modeling the built environment. This is expected to reduce time spent on data processing tasks, allowing for greater investment of resources to creative activities such as applications of results to design solutions.
## Generative Design Algorithms
It is a challenge for designers to encode their design as computable solution spaces as inputs for the generative design process. This proposal aims to streamline the process by developing algorithms like auto-parameterization of 3D models that are generalizable and can be easily adapted for different projects with minimal customization. In my previous studies, I have worked on developing and adapting algorithms for use in the design of the cooling system and building envelope and the design of building massing that maximizes solar performance2. In the latter study, the developed algorithms and tools were used for teaching in a two-week workshop in Singapore Polytechnic, where students with no training in computational design were able to successfully improve their designs with the developed algorithms. This proposal will improve on these algorithms and tools developed in these studies for wider usage in varying design scenarios, where solutions generated from the algorithms are used as benchmarks and precedents to guide design teams in their design process. I envision this will change how design teams work by allowing more time for reflecting on the generated solutions and through the reflections produce more innovative solutions.
## Visualization and Communication
Although, it is essential for designers to understand the modeling to facilitate the application of the result in a design solution. It is uncommon to visualize the workings of a model to communicate the underlying assumptions of the results. This proposal aims to facilitate communicating of modeling results to the designers. This is achieved through developing algorithms to process models, spatial and temporal data from the generative process for visualization. In my previous studies, I have informed research and enabled multidisciplinary collaboration through overlaying of modeling results with open GIS and time-series city data3. In the 2021 study, I was able to successfully visualize thermal comfort model results globally to facilitate an interdisciplinary discussion on ventilation strategy for a post-Covid world. This proposal will improve on the data processing algorithms developed and investigate novel visualization techniques for better communications of models. 